in the year 2019 it is fair to say that
vegan activism has settled into a few
familiar grooves a few repetitious
patterns that we see again and again
there was a time maybe just five years
ago when a lot of these ideas were fresh
and new there was a time when the
Earthlings experience they were the
first people to put together this idea
of sitting silently wearing a mask
holding an open laptop computer or
showing slaughterhouse footage that was
a new and exciting idea
I think people including myself first
found out about on tumblr that was
before veganism was was so big on
YouTube tumblr with where it was at for
people sharing that idea the Earthlings
experience bread other groups knocked
off and modified the idea etc there was
a time when each of these techniques in
terms of street theater or open protests
and even digital slacktivism such as
more engaged you know there was a time
when these things were exciting or new
and that time is now in the past so
increasingly I have people sending me
sympathetic email reflecting whether
they were just looking at what they've
done in the last few months or in the
last decade that when they get involved
in vegan activism they feel that their
time is being wasted so the main idea
I'm going to try to convey to you in
this video is that to waste someone's
time is actually immoral this may not
occur to us because in our intimate
lives
relations between husband and wife
boyfriend and girlfriend even
grandparents and grandchildren there's a
sense in which we're expected to behave
as if wasting time is no waste at all
that you know don't drive for 3 hours
just so you can see your grandparents
and sit around kind of doing nothing in
particular for several hours and drive
back this is some part of the poly tests
of the bourgeois class that everyone
ought to have time to waste and what not
to behave as if it is nothing it is that
it is merely gracious to waste ones time
with someone else well this doesn't
extend to things like politics education
we're really it's fiction
it's a fiction in our times maybe very
roughly analogous to the way in which
people used to engage in animal
sacrifice to welcome a guest into their
home's taking something tremendous
precious and destroying it as if to
prove that it's nothing as a symbolic
way of receiving a guess well the
sacrifices we make for one another in
the 21st century are largely sacrifices
of time and to a much lesser extent
sacrifices of money several different
people wrote in to me about their
experience with recent protests just in
the last couple days since my most
recent critiques on this issue one of
them was describing to me what it was
like to drive five hours each way to
attend a protest that he felt
accomplished nothing and didn't even say
anything interesting to the people
attending the contrast so you're talking
about driving five hours stay in a hotel
this time as well as money being spent
attend this event drive back I assume
he's only got one night no talent or two
this is a big sacrifice if you're
talking about people who are raising
kids and have a full-time job it's a big
big sacrifice and what do you get in
return for that sacrifice for the most
part what's going on within these
familiar grooves and patterns and
veganism it's accomplishing nothing but
providing one spectacle after another
one occasion after another for vegans to
pat themselves on the back for being is
to affirm their own sense of identity
I'm not going to say that a zero value
somebody asked me this question on the
internet a few days ago someone asked me
do I really feel this kind of activism
has zero value and I said no I would not
say
zero the value is greater than zero but
most of the value is just in giving
vegans a chance to meet one another
there are lots of people who met their
boyfriend and later got married at a
vegan animal rights protest or an anti
fur protest or whatever there's a sense
in which meeting other people could be
the basis for more meaningful forms of
activism in the future but in most of
these cases that is the only positive
thing I can say about it the events
themselves are meaningless for waste of
time and the actual lectures there's a
reason why most of them don't get
uploaded to YouTube actually the actual
content of the lectures is people
standing there prompting the audience to
cheer like property owners to applaud
that the speaker in response to the
speaker telling the audience how
wonderful they are
now I made fun of James asked me for
this you know I don't only so many
months ago James asked me stands there
and gives a speech to vegans and it's
like you have to realize you people are
the future you people are saving the
planet
you people are saving the animals you're
the best people the crowd goes wow it's
they were applauding him applauding
themselves it's like a it's a self it's
a cycle of self praise that's going on
here it's anyway I find it deeply
embarrassing but again above all else
it's a waste of time what does it mean
to say that there's there's such a
question of morality and wasting
someone's time several years ago I had a
chance I think a very remote chance to
enter a master's degree in PhD program
at a university in Montreal Canada now
why did I why did I gesture like this
because I was living in Saskatchewan
Canada and my wife of the time my wife
and I together devoted a considerable
amount of time and money to fly in an
airplane from Saskatchewan two months
real just to have what was I think it's
supposed to be a one-hour meeting with
this professor and he only talked to us
about 15 minutes I could get into the
details of that but it was truly hurtful
in that circumstance so this guy was a
professor of Buddhism and I had prepared
for the meeting I'd read his PhD thesis
I got his PhD theses of the line he had
not published a lot of research on
buddhism since then so I went and got a
copy of his PhD thesis and I read it and
I was prepared to really talk about my
own research and Buddhist philosophy and
his research in Buddhist philosophy and
I show up as someone was years and years
of background the discipline and I get
fobbed off with a kind of aimless
15-minute pep talk and I'm told look you
can study here if you want to um I
didn't feel so upset about it at that
moment
it took a little while for it to sink in
but I was really being robbed of one of
the very few opportunities to get higher
education I would ever have before or
since and you know this was a person who
had who had no respect for the fact no
respect for our time for the extent to
which he was wasting our time also again
hotels in Montreal are not cheap that
flights are not flights within Canada or
not
you better off flying to Thailand or
flying to Las Vegas than flying between
any two cities and Canada it's miserable
it's a huge waste of money and you think
this person has no respect for my time
and in a sense they have no respect from
his human being so this is a minor and
yet crushing disappointment that had
really serious the long-term long-term
effects in my life and you know I've got
to say as detached as I may be about
this experience as low as my
expectations may have been going into
this meeting with this professor it left
me with a deep and lasting sense of
resentment it's possible I'll meet that
guy at some point that has happened
sometimes where I meet professors of
Buddhism years later after my
interactions at the body mode so hey you
know do you want to know what impact
that had on my life for the next 10 20
years like for you this may have been a
casual and flippant decision but like
you know what you make you especially
with graduate students undergraduate
students to your casual and making
decisions that have huge impacts on your
students life so you know the question
of respect in that case we had an
appointment I mean I wrote to him in
advance I made the appointment and then
we booked the trip so to disrespect
somebody to that extent to to to waste
their time there are real real questions
of morality and evolved morality and
immorality and you know especially with
left-wing politics the extent to which
everybody left-of-center not everybody
on the left they get used to such
hyperbolic over-the-top exaggerated
ideological language extreme language of
praise and also extreme language of
criticism you know the fulmination
against the status quo extreme language
claiming that the government is totally
immoral that the economic system is
totally without everything everything
has to be resolved in some kind of
crescendo some kind of terrible uprising
revolutions on
this is antithetical to a more
down-to-earth pragmatic planning process
where you make it clear what it is
you're offering people what it is they
should expect what use it is you're
gonna make at their time and where
people feel respected people feel that
what they were offered what they were
promised is what they were really given
so whether that's that you have a
conference where you tell people look if
you come to this conference I'm gonna
give you you know one hour on stage and
you guys maybe 20 minutes we took Cal
State you get to speak I'm gonna
introduce you to these and these people
you're gonna get to eat at a dinner and
you're gonna get introduced like what is
it that you're offering as a vegan
movement at a vegan event is there a
certain workshop is there something
really of practical value is there some
educational values there's some training
you're gonna get out of attending this
thing because people are making serious
sacrifices in terms of time money I know
one female vegan activist and she has
two kids and a job not a full-time job
part-time job and she's raising two kids
and you know time is precious to her and
she was kicked out of a vegan group they
exiled her because she did not meet
their quota for attending a certain
number of hours of street protests per
month so they wanted a commitment
through if you wanted to be inside the
organization you had to be spending
whatever was eight hours a month minimum
which they had it's pennies certain
where I was standing on the street at
these protests all right so I have an
email here sorry this was a public
comment on Facebook from a woman named
Gina I'm just gonna use your first name
but I assume this is someone whose first
language is English you'll see why I
mentioned that here gene writes in high
eyes'll I hope you give me some advice
on how to move forward I have been an
activist for a few years with a few
local vegan organizations and Anonymous
for the voiceless
so Anonymous of the voiceless are one of
the groups who stand around in a mask
silently unfortunately none of that ever
worked to an extent that was justifying
the amount of time I put in it so upon
moving to another state in Europe I
eventually quit so those are the
so words here none of that ever worked
to an extent that was justifying the
amount of time I put into it preach so
she goes on to say more about her
situation she's 20 or 22 years old a
good illustrator or painter speaks
several languages lives below the
poverty line it's trying to study
philosophy in her spare time okay so you
got you got no money you barely got home
I don't actually there's no mention here
of a job well you know let me tell you
something you may feel you and the
audience may feel right now that
watching this YouTube video was all
waste your time if so I apologize but
the level of effort both for the creator
and for the audience that goes into
washing this YouTube video it's
exponentially more efficient than
showing up at a street protest or even
showing up at a conference at like an
academic conference that are going to
see a lecture vegan has been hoping to
hear something interesting or be able to
speak to some it's a whole thing to make
that connection so gene for your
situation given what you've told me
given what you've told me I know just
one form of vegan activism that won't
waste your time that'll bring some
positive people into your life where you
can use your artistic talent if you're
good at illustrating if you're good at
making images I only know what option I
can recommend to you that you can do in
poverty from your tiny apartment where
you're living below the poverty line
doesn't require that you own a car or
doesn't require that you drive five
hours nature's I only know one option
and it's it's right here on YouTube so
look guys there was a book years ago
called weapons of the weak terrible book
written by a communist [ __ ] and he
want to toggle it was a hit book weapons
of the week and we have this we have
this phrase still in Irish language
complete garbage in terms of political
science and anthropology punch right but
let me tell you something in the 21st
century right now standing on the street
chanting slogans these these are not the
weapons of the weak
handing out pamphlets no no no options
like you - options like you - these
really are effective weapons the week
and hey I have a lot to complain about
YouTube I'm really actively considering
quitting forever right now because my
life has come to such a bad closure to
be frank it's been one tragedy after
another for me personally professionally
education otherwise I'll make more
videos talking about that but the good
news is if you take the time to make
something beautiful something
interesting something thought-provoking
you're on YouTube it lasts forever it
stays up whether you think of it as a
work of art or or as something closer to
having a conversation with someone in a
cafe if you want to have conversations
with a whole bunch of strangers just
spread the message of veganism keep in
mind I've had more than 3.5 million
conversations now more than 3.5 million
total views or total viewings on this
channel there's no way I could have
accomplished that standing on a street
corner holding a placard chanting slow
there's no way I could have accomplished
that wearing a mask or participating
these other forms of protest and for you
maybe just maybe you'll be luckier than
I was because I come out of this
veganism thing burns and broken but you
know maybe you'll be maybe you'll born
the lucky ones so my advice to you is
the virtuous but be lucky